Hello and welcome back to the course on
R programming and in today's tutorial
we're still talking about aesthetics.
I know it's been a couple of tutorials
but aesthetics is a very important topic
and we really want to learn it well, so
that we can later create very powerful
visualizations and moreover today we're
talking about a very important topic
inside a very important topic which is
mapping vs setting. So I think it is
worthwhile to devote some time to it, so
it settles very well in our mind. So
let's go to R studio and before we
move on to mapping vs setting, I wanted
to say that this chart that we created
over here with the budget that is going
to be our second chart in R
deliverable. So let's go ahead and run it
and it looks pretty interesting because
budget it's showing us that budget
doesn't really affect the rating that
the audience will give, so doesn't matter
do you invest a lot of money on a movie or a
little bit of money they are other
factors that affect audience rating or
rather than budget. So I think it's an
important insight that we want to
convey. So we're going to export the
image by clicking this button and
clicking save as. Here we're going to say
what size we want, to thous.. 1, 2, 8, 0, 720 update
preview and let's go ahead and save that
and now I've actually prepared a
presentation which six slides. This is going
to be our deliverable and will copy it
as the second plot because we only leave
first place for the plot to steal
requested.
Alright so there's our first chart,
that's a great start.
Alright and now let's move on to mapping
vs setting. So first thing that we're going to
do is start up in your letter R and then
we'll say ggplot same thing data equals
movies then aesthetics. Let's get some
aesthetics X. So basically let's recreate
what we've already done.
It's always good to practice, y equals
audience rating.
Alright, so if I run that, that's our R
object and now what I want to do is I
want to say R plus let's give it some geometry, geom_point.
I run that.
We remember this black
plots, so just basically black plots.
Alright, how do we know add it give it some
color. So let's do that,
add color. They are two ways we can add
color to this plot. Number one is by
mapping and this is what we've done so
far. This is actually the hard bit so
setting is easier and it's good that we
started with mapping, it's a bit harder
but now we know it.
R plus geom_point, whoop not path,
point and here we want to say
aesthetic and inside we wanna say color equals
genre right? So if we run that, we've got
some colored points. Good!
now let's look at the second way. The
second way is actually setting. This is a
new way which we touched on the previous
tutorial, lets look at it.
So R plus same thing, geom_point and here
instead of saying aesthetic which is
going to say the color. We're just going to say
take color equals and we'll say dark
green, so if you run that, you'll see
that the points now are actually dark
green. Alright now this would be an
error, if I would say we'll get back to
what we did just now but I just want to
show error. If you tried to set the color
while using aesthetic, so if I was just
do this and then instead of Scharner if
I said dark green. So if I did that, if I run
that you'll see that the points are
actually kind of pink or salmon color
and there's a legend moral. Well there shouldn't be
a legend, and that is happe.. what's
happening there is that even though you
think that you're setting the color to
dark green. You're actually mapping it to
this new variable that are things you're
creating. So very important to remember
that if you just want to set a color
then you don't use the aesthetics. If you
want a map a color to a variable, then you
use the function aesthetic and so I know it
can be a bit confusing, so I'm just going to
comment this answer so it's not in our way. I can,
it can be a bit confusing between
the two because in both cases you're
setting color right and what is color?
Well color is an aesthetic, right?
It's an aesthetic on your chart so in
this case you're mapping color to a
variable. In this case, you are setting a
color which is an aesthetic to a
physical color. So you're using the
actual meaning of this word dark green.
It can be a bit confusing but the best
way I would say to remember it is that
it's harder to map the right? So
attaching one variable or something
a color to variable is generally a more
complex process and just setting it. So
that's how to remember it, so something more
complex requires this function
aesthetics requires the help of this
function as something simpler like
setting doesn't require that. So I know
it might be a bit confusing right now
but let's practice a little bit more and
I yeah I'm sure that throughout the
section we will have so much practice
that by the end of it you will be very
comfortable with all of this.
So mapping let's do it well, let's do another one.
So number one is going to be mapping,
we're going to say R plus geom point and
actually feel free to use any of your
own suggestions. For example I'm going to
use budget millions so I'm going to size
for budget millions which we used before
right? Now you can see the size has
changed, that's good
and now let's try setting. Here we're
going to say, R plus geom underscore point
and here we're going to say size equals
10.
Aha, Very big, very nice exactly what we
wanted.
Now let's see what happens once again,
we're going to check this out, the error.
I just want to show you that it is very
important to remember these things so
R plus geom underscore point and
here let's say I had forgotten that I
don't need to use aesthetics for setting.
I set aesthetics and I said size equals 10.
What you'll see the size is a bit
bigger than in this case but that's not
10 as we saw 10 is much bigger.
That is just because R is looking at this
10 that you're supplying as if it were a
category right?
As if it were like a factor variable and
saying okay, that's a category I'm going
to create a legend.
So everybody in category 10 is gonna
get this specific size which looks like
a three or four or something like that.
So basically  it can be very
misleading and if you by accident forget,
then you might end up in a bit of
trouble. So always remember if you want
to set something don't use the aesthetic
function, if you want to map something
use the aesthetic function. It's as simple
as that, and at the same time even though
it's being such a simple concept that
you can either set or map aesthetic such
see on the chart. It gives you a lot
of flexibility as you can imagine, so you
can either color something using a
variable or you can just color something
using a color. You can make a charge
prettier. You can make them more vibrant.
You can change the sizes, so if
something's too small you can change all
the sizes without even having to map
to a variable. It really, it gives you a lot
of control over your visualizations. So
that's what we're going to be practicing
throughout this section and that brings
also today at the end of today's tutorial. I
highly encourage you to play around with
this, so just spend a couple of minutes
on practicing setting vs mapping.
We've got a lot of variables in our data
set, so try different a couple of
different ones because it is an
important concept that needs to settle
down in our mind very well and I look
forward to seeing you next time.
Until then, happy coding.